# Contemporary Issues In Data: The Arrest of COVID-19 Data Scientist Rebekah Jones

In this document, I summarize and analyze two articles on the arrest of Rebekah Jones, a data scientist from Florida. Jones formerly worked on the state's COVID-19 tracking dashboard and later started her own dashboard after being fired for questioning the authenticity of the published statistics. The two articles take on different stances, one presenting a more objective report of the events that occurred while the other presents a deeper analysis regarding the application of this news to cybercrime law. 

## Article 1: The Washington Post
The article [Florida police were after a covid-19 data scientist. She turned herself in — and tested positive.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/01/19/rebekah-jones-florida-covid-jail/) published by the Washington Post on January 19th describes how Florida data scientist Rebekah Jones turned herself in to authorities after a warrant was issued for her arrest for "computer crimes." Jones had previously worked as a geographic information systems manager for the state of Florida, but was fired in May 2020 for refusing to comply with alleged instructions to falsify COVID-19 data. In December, state police raided her home and searched her electronic devices, reportedly in relation to a November security breach of a Florida Department of Health messaging platform. 

This article cites quotes from Jones' lawyer, Dobson, who states that "this entire case has been an overreach." It also specifically mentions the widespread criticism drawn by news of the raid, particularly from Democratic officials. While these aspects of the writing are perhaps biased towards Jones' perspective, I think the article is still largely objective. The majority of the article details the chronological events that took place which led up to Jones eventually turning herself into authorities in. It is very concerning to me, however, that the state would (allegedly) suppress and falsify coronavirus data, especially considering the dire state the country and Florida have been and continue to be in. 

## Article 2
As opposed to the more traditional news reporting style in the Washington Post article, the January 21st article [The Arrest of a Florida Data Scientist Demonstrates a Weird Hole in Cybercrime Law](https://slate.com/technology/2021/01/rebekah-jones-arrest-cybercrime-hacking-florida-covid.html) published by Slate magazine takes a deep dive into the technicalities of whether or not Jones' alleged actions were illegal or not. On November 10th, a warning text message was sent from a state Department of Health incident and emergency planning system, which was accessed using credentials shared across all of Florida's emergency support personnel. The state alleges that Jones, who was no longer a state employee, was unauthorized to use the credentials to login to the system, even though the credentials were not changed after her departure. There is debate in the courts regarding whether or not Jones actually did anything illegal, seeing as the state didn't change any log-in information and that Jones didn't have to do any technical "hacking" to access the system. 

If we operate under the assumption that Jones in fact did send the text message last November, then I think that both parties, Jones and the state of Florida, are at fault in this situation. Jones should not have used her credentials to disrupt an emergency response system after having been terminated as a state employee, but the Florida Department of Health should have done their due diligence to expire her login as well. In the legal sense, it's interesting that there is still ambiguity regarding what constitutes revoking access to a computer in the year 2020, and whether or not the state department made a reasonable effort to secure their systems. 
